So, we're going to talk
a little about sockets,
and how to use them
for communication.
So, some of the
basic things you do
with sockets once
they're created.
How you connect them,
how you send data on the socket,
how you receive data on socket.
So, I've got two lines
of code right here.
Let's look at
the second one first.
The second one is mysock.connect.
So, mysock is the socket object
that I've created already.
Connect() is a method for that,
that will connect that socket
to a remote machine,
to an application on
a remote machine.
So, now let's look at
the argument for that.
Connect() actually it
takes one argument.
It looks like two, but it's
actually one argument,
which is a tuple of two things.
That tuple contains host, number.
Now, in this case,
host is the IP address
of the host that you
want to connect to.
Then, the second
part of the tuple,
which is the single argument.
Right? The second part
of that tuple
is a number which
is the port number that
you want to connect to.
So, the fact that I'm
now connecting to port
80 tells me that I'm
connecting to a web server,
because port 80 is
associated with web servers.
So, note that on the second line
where I'm doing the connection,
the first part of
that tuple which is
the argument is the host.
That's supposed to
be the IP address
or representation
of the IP address.
But, remember that usually
humans don't remember
IP addresses.
Now, this depends on the human.
I actually have
a few IP addresses
dedicated to memory,
but not too many.
For the most part, people
don't remember IP addresses.
They remember domain names.
So, for instance, you
remember www.google.com,
but you don't know its IP address
off the top of you had probably,
unless you're odd, but you
probably don't remember that.
So, what happens is
you have to take
this domain name and generate
the IP address from it.
So, that's what the first
line of code is doing.
So, the host is an IP address,
but you may only have the domain.
So, you call this function
gethostbyname() to
perform a DNS lookup.
DNS is Domain Name
Service lookup.
It will lookup the IP address
for a particular domain name,
and it'll return that.
So, if I say
socket.gethostbyname,
pass it the string which
is the domain name,
it will return this host
which is the IP address.
Now, how this DNS works
is a longer story,
but it's network protocol.
It will look locally,
maybe you have it in
your local cache,
otherwise it'll go
your name server and ask it,
where can I find
it, the name saver
might ask another name
server and so on.
But eventually, from
your program point of view,
you call gethostbyname(),
it comes back with an IP address.
Then, once you have
the IP address as host,
then you can call
mysock.connect(),
and pass it one argument
which is a tuple of
the host, IP address,
and the port that you want
to connect to depending on the
application you want to speak to.
So, connect, it creates
a connection or opens
the connection between the two.
The port 80 is for web traffic,
but it can be whatever port
you want to connect to.
So, now once you've
got that connected,
you want to send
some data on a socket.
So again, I've got
two lines of code.
Let's look at the second
line of code.
That's where I'm actually
doing the sending.
So, my sock.sendall(), I'm
using the sendall() method.
Let's skip that
for a second here.
The sendall() method,
it sends data.
I pass it this one
argument message.
In this case, if you look
at the first line message,
it's just a string.
So, that string is being
sent on that socket.
Now, remember from
the last slide,
I connect that socket to
google.com port 80
to their web server,
and I'm sending
that string message,
that string on
the first line message.
I'm sending that to google.com.
Now, I can set
an arbitrary string,
but I'm sending it
to a web server,
port 80 web server.
So, web servers understand HTTP.
So, that's the protocol
they understand.
So, this message is actually
an HTTP GET request.
I don't want to go
heavily into that,
but let me just explain what this
simple GET request looks like.
The most simple GET request,
this is the most
simple you can get.
There are basic three things
in the message.
If you look at
that message, it says GET,
the first word is GET.
It's the type of request.
There are a few types
of HTTP requests.
A GET request is the
most common very basic.
It just says, give me
data off of this webpage.
Basically all it says, give
me the data off this webpage.
So, it's asking you to return
it with the data
that it finds there.
Now, then, the next thing
on that line is a slash.
The slash tells you which file
you want to get
off of the server.
Now, it's just slash.
So, that just means
the local directory.
It doesn't tell me
the name of a file there.
Whenever you don't give it
a name of file like that,
it assumes the name of
the file is called index.html.
That's the generic webpage name.
So, it's going to get
index.html because I
didn't leave a name.
Now, I could have said,
/picture.pdf or something.
I could have said
any resource I wanted to.
But, if I just say / like that,
it'll just assume I'm looking for
index.html on the server,
and that's usually the file
that has the main webpage.
Then, the third thing on the
line is the version of HTTP.
So, it's version 1.1.
Then, at the end of the line,
there is \r\ n\r\n.
That character and line feed,
character and line feed
that double like that.
In HTTP, it marks
the end of a request.
So, that's how it knows
that that's the end
of the request when
you put the \r\n\r\n.
So, by sending that,
I'm requesting Google's webpage.
So, then I might want to
receive data on the socket.
Now, typically after sending
a request like that,
you'll want to receive
whatever the results are.
You're expecting
Google to send you
back a webpage or some data,
and so you want to
receive data on that.
So, this time we
call mysock.recv.
Now, it takes an argument.
In this case 1000 we're
passing as an argument.
That is the maximum number of
bytes that you can receive,
that you're expecting to
receive on this socket.
That's the maximum
that you receive.
mysock.recv will
return some number
of bytes that are
received on the socket,
and they will go to data.
So, data will be assigned
to whatever is received
on the socket,
and this is a blocking wait.
What I mean by blocking wait is,
it when you're
executing this code,
the code execution will stop at
that line until
something is received.
It will block on that line.
It won't continue past that line
until something is received.
The argument is
just a maximum number
of bytes to receive,
which is important
in certain languages
where you have
these fixed length buffers.
You don't want to
overflow the buffer.
Now, then closing a socket
is what you do after you're
done with the communication.
mysock.close() is
pretty straightforward.
It will close the socket,
which is good
because then you can
reuse a socket later,
or if you want to connect
to something else.
So, free up the port. Thank you.